- [Instructor] One of the feature found within Java EE 8
is the support for server sent events within JAX-RS.
Server sent events allow us to establish
a one-way channel from a server to a client
which can be reused to send multiple events.
Let's take a look at how to use server sent events
within our application.
So, to get started, I'm going to open the
"New" dialog and I'm going to create a resource.
So, we'll advance to the next pane here
and we'll provide a name for the resource.
It's going to be the sseinventoryitemendpoint
and then we can supply a path, which is going to be
/sse/inventoryitems
and then we're only going
to support Jason, so I'm going to remove XML media type.
And then we'll hit next and we can skip
the creation of a JAX-RS application
because we already have one.
The first thing we'll do in this resource
is change its scope to a singleton
so there's going to be one instance
for our entire application.
Make sure you select the javx.inject.singleton type.
Once that's in place, we can then go add a method
that returns a void and we'll just call it
sseitemquantity
and then we can add
some JAX-RS mapping annotations here.
So it's going to respond to httpgets and then
we're going to add a path on to this resource method.
And that path is going to include a template parameter.
And its going to be the InventoryItemId.
And then the final annotation we need to add here
is going to be the "produces" annotation,
and it's really important for this
server sent events method that we're building.
We can specify the media type of SERVER_SENT_EVENTS,
and that's definitely necessary for what we're
going to be building here.
And then we can start to build
the parameter list here.
So the first thing we'll do is get the PathParam,
and that PathParam is associated with our InventoryItemId.
We're going to assign that to a long,
and we'll call that long the inventoryItemId.
Then we'll hop down to another line here.
The next thing, we're going to specify
the context annotation because this next parameter,
the SseEventSink is going to be
injected into the method.
And then the same for our next parameter,
which is going to be the Sse parameter.
So those are both types.
We can go ahead and import them.
And now we can start building out the body of this method.
Let's give ourselves some space here.
All right, so the first thing we're going to do is
to create a try block because the SseEventSink
needs to be closed once we're finished.
So let's just assign that SseEventSink
to an SseEventSink,
and we can take advantage
of the auto closeable nature there.
All right, now we're going to create a for loop,
and we'll just iterate, let's say 30 times,
and then we're going to add some logic
within the body of that for loop.
I'm going to tell the thread to sleep
just to add some lag here,
and we'll sleep for about 1000 milliseconds.
Surround that with a try catch,
and then we can add some more logic.
Okay.
So, inside of the body of our for loop,
we can add an OutboundSseEvent
and we'll just name it event.
And we can create that event using the SSE object.
So here we can specify a new event,
and then it just expects us to return some data
of type: string.
So, what I'm going to do is basically create
a random integer with every iteration.
So we can use a new random,
and that random can give us the next int.
We'll we get an integer between zero and 50,
and at that point, we have created our event,
and then we just use SseEventSink
in order to send that event out to the client.
So you're going to see the client connect
and then it's going to continually get events
and data sent by the server.
Okay, with that in place, I'm going to go ahead
and start our application.
There we see the application start up.
And let's open up a browser and then
we're going to have to hit our JAX-RS application
for this to work.
So I'll just kind of cheat here and modify the URL
for our JSF applications, so if you will recall
the base for our API is hsports/api
and then our path was sse/inventoryitems
and then we had a path parameter.
So let's go ahead send a get there
and then you're going to see that we keep
getting data roughly every second with a random number.
And y'know, we're not requesting that every time.
There's just a connection open and its being
pushed by the server.
So that's a look at how we can use the new
server sent events feature found within JAX-RS
that's included with Java EE 8.